+++
date = '2025-02-26T11:22:28+04:00'
draft = false
title = '1 John 3:10-17'
+++


# Born of God


## To be born of God.

### This is not how God Calls us
Most of us without a doubt will call ourselves "Christians". We so used to this name. It is so dear to us and we are so attached to it, that many people almost believe that maybe even Jesus Christ himself secretly started to call his disciples *Christians*. And it's not a bed name don't get me wrong. That's not what I'm saying. What I want to say is simply that this is **NOT** how God calls us. 

### Origin of the name
Depending on the context sometimes, it is not all that important. But sometimes the difference is crucial. First of all it was not even disciples or followers who invented the term "**"Christians"**". If we would to look into acts 11:25-26. We would see **WHEN** and **WHERE** this name takes it's origin:

>### Acts 11:25,26
>²⁵So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul,²⁶and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. **And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians.**
<!--TIME: 1:10-->

It was *other people* who started to call followers of Christ "**Christians**". It started off as a nickname. Like a collective description of the group of people with the same interests. Today we call some groups like **Rednecks**, **Nerds**, **Christians**...

### Term "*Christians*" in the modern days
In the modern day a lot of people consider themselves *Christians* for a variety of different reasons. In countries with a strong cultural bond, like Georgia. People often say something among the lines: "My parents were Christians, and grandparents were Christians, therefore I'm a Christians". In minds of many to be Georgian is to be Christian. It's not exclusive to Georgia, there are other nations like that. Because, Christianity in their mind is a part of their cultural heritage. It's a tradition. Just a title. Often it has very little to do with the faith and lifestyle.

All together, it is not very reliable term this days. **This world** called us Christians. But, God gave us the other name. There is a biblical concept that does way better job in defining who is who.And that is **To be born of God**.
<!--TIME: 3:00-->

### Born of God. Introduction
Jesus introduced the idea that you should **be born again**. Born from the spirit. When he talked to Nicodemus. Who was the teacher of the law and one of his(Jesus's) secret followers.

>### John 3:3,5
> ”³Jesus answered him(Nicodemus), “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.”⁴Nicodemus said to him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?”⁵Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God

### 1 John elaborates on this
In his letter John repeats and elaborates on this. He says: "**we are God's Children NOW**" In the verse 1. We already talked about it a little bit last Sunday. God loved us so much, that he not only took away our sin. But he also, made us a part of His family. How great is that? In the verse 9 we get a bit more explanation. We can see more connection with what Jesus were saying to Nicodemus:

>### 1 John 3:9
>⁹ No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for **God's seed abides in him**; and he cannot keep on sinning, because **he has been born of God**.

Today I want us to pay closer attention to this two statements:

* He(the person) Has been **born of God**
* **God's seed abides** in him(person)

This two statements are very important. We not gonna be able to cover their meaning in full today. There is not enough nether time, nor the knowledge, that I poses. But, nevertheless we will shed some light on it.
<!--TIME: 5:00-->

### Not yet transformed, but already children
In verse 2 John saying that **we already are Children of God**.

>### 1 John 3:2
>²Beloved, we are God's children now, and **what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him**, because we shall see him as he is.

We still to undergo some major transformation. We will receive new glorified body, like one Jesus have. There are few places in the new testament which talk about this. I can share a list with you if you want to read more about it. As for now we will briefly read one scripture to give you an idea if you have never heard of it yet.

>### Philippians 3:20,21
>²⁰But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,²¹who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.

It is an interesting topic but it is outside of our scope for tonight. The main point that I want to emphasize is that, despite that we are still in our old bodies, which suffer from diseases & fleshly desires we **ALREADY ARE** children of God. When we come to God. When we confess our sins. When we !**GENUINELY** repent and accept Jesus as our Lord and Savior. We receive Holy Spirit and we get **BORN AGAIN** - experience radical transformation in our relationship with God. We become children of God.
<!--TIME: 6:40-->

### Foreigners in this world
When we get born again, we die for this world. We become foreigners. Verse 1 says that this world does not know us. That's because when we die(figuratively speaking) for this wold,  we broke that intimate bond, that deep relational connection with the worldly system. It cannot recognize us anymore. We start to belong to a different kingdom. And we cannot be a part of both.

There is a key difference that separates us, makes us incompatible with this worldly system. We change our citizenship, change our status. We get reborn and **God's** **seed** abides in us now.

### Understanding seed
It is very important to truly understand what that mean. This word **SEED** is an interesting word. Widely used in agriculture and biology. Seed is something that produces new life. Produces offspring.

<!--WARN:The Greek word, not that it is important, but I want you to remember what we have talked about, and it might help, Greek word sounds like:

>σπέρμα spérma, sper'-mah; from G4687; something sown, i.e. seed (including the male "sperm");-->

### Same type of species
As you know I'm not too much into agriculture and biology. But one thing that I know it that seeds always produce same type of species. You can't grow banana trees from apple seeds. Mountain lions don't give birth to monkeys. And the same among the humans. We are very much like our parents. Weather we like it or not, when we conceived we inevitably inherit some core characteristics of our parents. **Their seed abides in us.**

### I tried to be not like my dad
My childhood was not a "*bed of roses*". In my teenage age i decided that I don't want to have anything to do with my dad. And I would meticulously get rid of any similarities, weather it is a way of talking, some behavioral patterns, anything that I could spot. And you know what? I didn't succeed very much. I thought I did, but I was wrong. Once I got old enough I realized that unconsciously I'm actually a lot like my father. Because, his **seed is in me**. There is no way around it.
<!--TIME: 9:07-->

### Spiritual rebirth
When we get born of God. We experience this **rebirth in our spirit**. It's not just words. It's a fact that we accept by faith. You might not feel anything physically at first. But it shows through. This radical change in our relation to God cannot go unseen. There will be some noticeable changes.

### 1 John 3:4-9
 ⁴Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness.⁵You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin.⁶No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.⁷Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.⁸ Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.⁹ No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him; and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God.
 <!--TIME: 10:40-->

### Attitude to sin. Lawlessness
First noticeable difference is that our attitude to sin changes. In verse 4 we read that **sin is lawlessness, and to practice sin is to practice lawlessness**. Let's break this down:

>**To practice lawlessness** means to **regularly** or **intentionally** engage in actions that disregard or violate laws, rules, or norms. It implies a **consistent** habit or behavior of acting without respect for the authority.

In other words it means that those who are sinning disregard God's law, and therefore disregard God, the one who created the law.

>To disregard someone - means to ignore them, treat them as unimportant, or show a lack of consideration or respect for them. It involves not acknowledging their feelings, opinions, or presence.

### Love vs Disregard. Make practice of sinning
You don't treat anyone you love in this fashion. Maybe we can even argue that love and disregard are opposite to each other. And this is perfect description of how people of this world live their lives. They do not consider God. His feelings, opinions or presence. They *make practice of sinning* and it doesn't bother them a bit.

### We were just like that.
Once we were just like that. We loved to sin. We were proud of our sins. Maybe we would even compete with our friend who would take it further. We made plans to sin. We would reflect on our past sins with a great satisfaction. We used to find great pleasure and comfort in our sins.

This is regular state of mind, state of heart of someone who is, as John says, of the devil. If you love sin, then devil is your father.

>### 1 John 3:8
>⁸ Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.
<!--TIME: 13:00-->

### Habitual sin vs occasional
Again, I will repeat myself and say that we are not talking about occasional sin. We all sin time to time. And John addresses it in the very beginning of his letter.

>### 1 John 1:8
>⁸ If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.

No, in out today's passage we talk about people who **love to sin**. Who is not bothered by it. Who chose sin as their lifestyle. Who finds pleasure, enjoys their sins and plan to continue. As verse 8 says people who **make a practice of sinning** or as the other translation says **who love to sin**. Such people are of the devil. That's the people of this worldly system. They are not of God. Any such person never seen or knew God according to the Bible.

### 1 John 3:9
⁹ No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him; and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God.

### We inherit from God
When we born of God. Once His seed start to abide in us. We become new creatures. We inherit our father's characteristics. And since he hates sin. We start to hate sin too. It is not about our will power or something. No, it becomes our nature. 

### Me and Ales
For example I like to rules. Let's say we are playing a board game. I really dislike when people break the rules. It bothers me a lot. Also, I have a son(more then one actually). And you know what? My son, big surprise, is just as much into rules as I am, in not more. How much will power, of effort it took him to become like his father? Maybe he spent years training himself to like rules? No, he just inherit it from his parents. **My seed abides in him**

### Summery
So, as John says 

### 1 John 3:7
⁷Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.

### 1 John 3:3
³And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure.

### 1 John 3:9
⁹ No one born of God makes a practice of sinning...

### 1 John 3:10
¹⁰By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.

#### Children of God
In his letter to the church. On one hand John explains who are the true **Children of God**. Again and again he repeats and expands our view. Like a ripple on the water. We start at the core, and step by step expand our understanding.

#### Deceivers
On the other had he warns us about deceivers. False *brothers* who will try to lead us away from the truth. They can be still inside our church, in our mids, but also outside. Especially in our days of fast internet and countless hours of sermons and teachings available online. The goal of deceivers is to make you go astray. Be very very, extremely careful of what you listen too, because sure there are a lot of good material our there. But there is a lot of a false teaching as well. The most dangerous kind, which sounds alright for the most part. But as they say, the devil is in the details. 

#### Lair
The devil is ultimate lair. He perfected his art of deceiving. He will do what it takes to make you doubt God. Make you doubt yourself. To make you loose the joy of your salvation.

Do not let devil to deceive you. If we adhere to this 4 principles:

* We Don't love sin
* We Love our brothers
* We Practice righteousness
* We Purify ourselves

Then you can be sure that God's seed abides in you. You've been born of God. **YOU ARE** the child of God who was born from death to life.

### Prayer
If you unsure if ever experienced this radical Transformation in our relationship with God. If you still don't find this 4 principles to be part of your life yet, but you want to change. You can come up to me after the service and we will pray together.(Or any other prayer that you need)

***


# To be born of God:
* To have God's seed => to be like father.
    * Righteous
    * Sinless
    * Pure
    * Loving
* To have hope to be transformed. (Glorified body?)
* Pass From Death To Life
* Love Brothers
    * Practically. Not by word but by work.
    * Lay down your life
* Destroy the work of the Devil
* To be like Able
* Destroy work of satan?

# Children of God vs Children of the Devil
* Purifies himself
* Have God's seed
* Purify themselves
* Do not sin*
* Love brothers
* Passed from death to life

### Transformation scriptures
- 1 Corinthians 15:42-44
- Philippians 3:20-21
- Romans 8:18-23
- Matthew 13:43
- Luke 20:35-36
- 1 John 3:2
- 2 Corinthians 5:1-5
- Revelation 21:4
