+++
date = '2025-11-20T08:48:04+04:00'
draft = false
title = 'Romans 15:13-33'
+++

### INTRO
Last week we started with chapter 15. Brother Andrey shared with us about importance of bearing with one another. I think it is very relevant to any church, but especially for our church fellowship. Because our gatherings are a lot like those of the early Christians in Rome. Look around the room, see how many different people groups represented here tonight? We come from the different countries, different cultural and church backgrounds. Somehow each of us ends up staying in Batumi and joining Calvary Chapel Church family.

### Not Empty Handed
When we join a new church in a new country we don't come empty-handed. We carry the load of our previous experiences. Our mindset, our local culture, our church culture. Sometimes it's obvious and we're well aware of our differences. And sometimes we arn't even aware those differences exist. They remain unknown knows. 

### EXAMPLE - Paul's Mashed Potatoes
My family and I live and serve in Batumi for almost 10 years now. But before coming to Georgia, we spend over 5 years working with YWAM in Armenia.

We have good friends there, fellow missionaries. We served together a lot and spent a lot of evenings together as well. During one of those evenings we were cooking something after a big day full of ministries. It was regular night, nothing was special about it. But I had yet to realize that this evening would turn my whole world upside down.

...

My friend Paul, American guy, was making mashed potatoes. He was working on it for a few minutes and I went to the kitchen to help him out. I'm from Belarus originally and we know how to handle potatoes there, trust me. Potatoes are big part of our life in Belarus.

I'm walking into a small kitchen in an old soviet apartment. Everything is old here. Old walls, old cabinets, old stove. No range hood, bad ventilation. Classic... Kitchen is very damp and filled with steam from... Wait what?

Boiling water? Wait...

I look at Paul. He is right next to the stove with a basket of unpeeled potatoes. I watch him as he peels a potato. Then he turns. And slices it straight away, right into a boiling water. In the thinnest slices possible.

My whole being was screaming at this abomination! Everything he did was wrong! I could not even believe what I just saw. The very foundations of my existence trembled beneath me.

I was ready shout "STOOOOOOOP! You doing it wrong!"

...

### LESSON
The mashed potatoes turned out surprisingly good — but that night, I learned something far more important. I realized I’m full of unknown knowns: the hidden beliefs, the quiet habits, the invisible lenses through which I see the world. They shape me, guide me, influence me… and yet I move through life unaware they even exist.

...

### CONNECTION
When we gather together and start to get closer and open up. As we work together. These hidden beliefs and quiet habits clash. They can create tensions, misunderstandings and conflicts. Therefore we have to stay alert. We need to learn to bear with one another. We need to learn to understand, love, and accept one another.

### WHY?
**Why?** Why do I have to do this?

Because this is the will of God for you.

...

So easy. God wants you to live and grow in love. This is the life of worship in a nutshell. This is all God wants you to do. That's all!

### Hard Part
The concept is super easy. It's so accessible that anyone can understand this. The hard part is application. Going from theory to practice. And that's where we need help. That's where we need one another. That's when church fellowship comes into play.

### Romans 15:14
>¹⁴And concerning you, my brothers *and sisters,* I myself also am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge and able also to admonish one another...

### Admonish
Verse 14 is the key to why it is so important to be a part of the church family. To be present, to belong, to submit to a concrete local church. Within the context of the local church, we will be able to fulfill the will of God. Through His church God will help us to become people after His own heart. He will help us to find our calling and to fulfill it.

**He will help us to be the people we were created to be.**

### Reason
When Paul writes his letter to the church, it's not because they are lacking. No, he says that "..you are full of goodness and filled with all knowledge, you are able to admonish one another..."

Everything Paul has written is a reminder. Reminder to all churches what church is all about. Reminder what is following Christ is all about. Reminder and a call to action. 

### Romans 15:15
>¹⁵But I have written very boldly to you on some points so as to remind you again, because of the grace that was given to me from God...

In our walk with the Lord we can get carried away. By a new shiny revelation. Or old forgotten "truth". Maybe by our own unique experiences. You name it.

That's why every now and then we need to check whether we are still on the right track. We need to come back to the source. Back to the basics. And double check. Because sometimes a slight misalignment today, can cause you to completely miss your destination in a long run.


### DETOUR
Few years ago one of my sisters came to visit us. We had a wonderful time together, but as all the good things, quickly it has come to the end. Time has come for her to depart. She had a flight from Kutaisi airport. Her flight was something like at 4 AM. So, we had to be at the airport by 2 AM.

We had to drive from Tbilisi. But, I know this road quite well. I know exactly how much time we need. But because it was a night time. We decided to go early. To make it a bit easier on me. We said goodbye to our hosts and left.

The drive started not too badly. We managed to leave the city relatively trouble free. Very soon we hit the highway and I relaxed. Because from there on it going to be easy.

...

As we drove further and further form Tbilisi. I started to notice that there is less and less cars on the road. Hm... But it's getting late so, I guess that's expected.

...

In about an hour I was alone on the road. No other cars going my direction. It was nice. But a bit weird. I drove though the night from Tbilisi before. And you rarely get that lucky with the traffic.

And suddenly, out of nowhere I see that the road is completely blocked. The whole road filled with trucks. Semi trailers. Hundreds if not thousands of them. And they stay completely still. No movement whatsoever. Even their lights are off.

...

It was at this moment when I realized I screwed up. I remember that some month ago there were roadworks on that section of the road. And they would not let any traffic after dark. Except for trucks.

It's been a while since they made an announcement. I've thought it's all done. I didn't even think about it.

...

I was starting to panic a little by little. Because traffic would not move. I got blocked by more trucks behind me. There is no place to turn around. We just sit there watching the clock. My heart started to race, my palms were sweating and I don't know what to do... Frankly I can't do anything. We just sit there helpless.

...

Then a little movement. We drove few meters. Then few more. And few more. After a long time of stopping and going, we finally get to the point were both opposite lanes and our lanes merge. Considering all the risks we drove on the opposite side of the road, bypassing all those trucks. Until we met a police car. 

They looked at us like "WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE? YOU ARE NOT SUPPOSED TO BE HERE! YOU HAVE TO GO BACK!"

...

We had to drive back for about 40 minutes at top speed. Until we got to the point where we could take a detour to airport. Detour road was amazing and beautiful. Little towns. Beautiful nature. But we could not enjoy that beauty. We had to zip through at maximum allowed speed. Because, All we could think of, was whether we will make it in time for the flight.

...

In our Christian walk sometimes we are so confident. Confident in our faith, in our understanding of the bible. Of God's ways. We are so confident that we start to neglect the basics. We go by feel. We start saying thing like "I'm led by the spirit...", "I have a special revelation". I know it all... You don't understand...

...

And before we know it. We are far away from were we should have been.

...

Simple reminder is what can save us.

Save us from broken relationships. Financial disasters. Wasted time and efforts.

...


That's why it is so important to belong to the church. Because in the church we are able to **admonish** one another.

### ADMONISH
Admonish means:

* To gently warn someone

* To correct them in a kind, caring way

* To encourage someone to do what is right

* To point out a problem or mistake so they can grow

And unless we open up and reveal our secret struggles and quite believes. Unless we let our church family know us, our life. We're not going be able to receive admonishment. To be reminded.

We also have to have humility to admit and accept correction, warning, suggestion.

### Who can admonish
Admonishing typically does not come from a stranger or visitor in the church. Not every person who comes to church is able to admonish others. Because it's not about making sure you following rules. Or instructing on how to behave.

**You have to have character**. Verse 14 says that You have to be full of *goodness* or *kindness*. Because love is at the heart of admonishing. Unless you have genuine love you not gonna be able to admonish.

You also should have solid understanding of the Gospel of Christ. Of God's ways of Love. Or as verse 14 says To be filled with *knowledge*. If someone doesn't have solid foundation in Christ, such person is also not going to be able to admonish others.

Admonishing comes out of love. Out of deep care. It comes from the desire to see you succeed in your life with Christ.

Admonishing is that **REMINDER**. Reminder which helps us to stay on the right track.

### END
If you wonder we managed to get to the airport in time. By the grace of God we left early enough to account for little adventure.

In our Christian walk. Lord is able to help us to go back to His path. It is not too late to turn around. To submit to His truth and to His guidance. In order not to miss your destination. In order to become a person He created you to be.
