+++
date = '2026-01-07T07:15:12+04:00'
draft = true
title = 'Romans 15:20-33'
+++

<!--NOTE:
    1. Building on another man's foundation. Mission to unreached. v.20-23
    2. Get help from the Church - is a reasonable request. Support missionary work financially v.24-29
    3. Example v25-29
    4. Pray for missionaries. v.30-33
-->

### INTRO
Greetings, church. Even though we finished our book last Sunday, today we are back in Romans. We skipped a small but very important section of the last chapter. So I really wanted to go back and look at a few verses.

### MISSIONS
We will be reading from Romans 15:20–33. And we will talk about missionary work.

I think today is a perfect Sunday to do that. We have a visiting team of missionaries from Tbilisi. They will be serving with us, and I’m sure they will be a blessing to our church for some time. So please get to know them while they’re here. Show them some love and attention. We also heard from Matt about their missionary journey with the Lord here in Georgia. Praise God!

So I won’t be wrong if I say that quite a few people in our church are passionate about missions. It’s definitely true for me and my wife. We are no strangers to missions. It’s been our life for the last 15 years, and we are still pursuing this path. It’s just the best job in the world.

[MEME https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_ts9DSIh0g]

### WHY?
But no one gets born with an understanding of God’s heart for missions. There was a time when I had no idea. There is no shame in that. I didn’t see my place and role in missions. I didn’t understand missions or my responsibility. I didn’t even know that there was a responsibility!

### Thing of the past
[IMG https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:4800/format:webp/1*O6NY4iNjTxh494-9oZTemg.jpeg]
I’ve thought that **“a missionary”** is a thing of the past. A dead profession. Like **Lamplighters** and **Knocker-Uppers**.

I bet you’ve never heard about **Knocker-Uppers** before. They would go around the city and wake people up in the morning by knocking on their windows and doors. So that they could get to work on time. But then the alarm clock was invented, and this profession became obsolete.

And today the profession of a Knocker-Upper, even though it was important at some point, is now dead. Turned into history. Today you’re not going to find professional Knocker-Uppers. No one needs them anymore. Their time faded away. Their role has been taken by the Industrial Revolution, by alarm clocks, and eventually by our phones.

And in some rare cases by your neighbor, who wakes you up first thing in the morning on your day off with his drill. :)

### Same with missions?
And for the same reasons many people believe that **“missionaries”** as a profession suffered the same fate. Missionaries became obsolete because of technical progress, or for some other reasons. Maybe that’s how you think as well. Just as I thought a few years back… well, fine… a bit more than *a few* years. More like two decades back. But anyway, it’s probably even more so today. When AI hype is through the roof. When *technology* made another big leap.

It’s worth coming back to the source and re-evaluate whether we are still up to date. So today I want to bring a biblical perspective to our attention. I want us to reflect, to understand that mission is **not dead**. It’s still relevant. And it will continue to be relevant until Jesus comes back. Actually, I think it’s more accurate to say that **when** we fulfill this mission, **then** Jesus will come back.

Unfortunately, we are not going to be able to have a comprehensive look at missions in the Bible tonight. We will only get a brief glimpse. “*Touch on a few things*.” We will explore what our responsibility is as a church in regard to missions. Let’s start reading:

### Romans 15:20-21
²⁰And in this way I aspired to preach the gospel, not where Christ was *already* known by name, so that I would not build on another person’s foundation;²¹but just as it is written: 

“THEY WHO HAVE NOT BEEN TOLD ABOUT HIM WILL SEE, AND THEY WHO HAVE NOT HEARD WILL UNDERSTAND.”


### PAUL - PIONEER
In these verses Paul briefly talks about his role, his vision, and his attitude toward the work of the Gospel. He explains why he is always on the move. And why he has never settled anywhere. Why he never became a pastor of a church or something like that, even though he started so many.

He quotes the prophet Isaiah in verse 21 to defend his position, as an argument and explanation. It shows that it was not just Paul’s idea. He did not pursue a desire to travel around or anything like that. He simply obeyed the Scriptures, which are written in **Isaiah 52:15**:

>### Isaiah 52:15(don't reread if short on time)
>¹⁵And he will startle many nations. Kings will stand speechless in his presence. For they will see what they had not been told; they will understand what they had not heard about.

### HIS APPROACH
Today we would call the apostle Paul a “pioneer,” a church planter. A person who reaches out to the “unreached.” Areas and people groups that have never heard the Gospel. That have no church. That have no opportunity to hear the Good News. In doing so, Paul fulfills God’s dream.

- WHAT? What is **God’s dream?**

### God's dream
You can see it all throughout the Bible. But my favorite and most concise description is in **1 Timothy 2:4**:

### 1 Timothy 2:4
...**all people** to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.

The heart of God stretches to every single person, regardless of their nation, social status, or financial well-being. Jesus made it clear. He *led the way*, so to speak. And Paul became one of the first workers to implement this idea. God had called Paul to take the Gospel to the Gentiles specifically, which was unheard of at the time.

### ALL NATIONS
Until God called Paul, no one ever even considered that the Gospel needed to be taken to all nations.

Remember, it was a time when the vast majority of the followers of Christ were Jews. And quite a few of them believed that salvation was not for Gentiles. They had a special meeting—a council—where *the tiptop*, *the apostles*, gathered together to decide whether Gentiles could be saved. We’re not going to go into that; it’s just to give a little perspective.

### FIRST MISSIONARY
Therefore, I would consider Apostle Paul to be the first missionary of the New Testament. At least the one who is well known. A missionary who focused specifically on taking the Gospel to those who had never heard it, who had no idea. This type of ministry was brand new—“outside the box” for the people of Paul’s time. He had to prove that it was actually biblical, which he did successfully.

### PAUL'S EXAMPLE
Apostle Paul sets an example for us. That we should focus on reaching out to the unreached. Go into nations and areas that have no local church, into communities that have never heard the Gospel. And give them a chance to hear. And tell them that God loves them. Give them a chance to be saved.

The job listing for that is still out there. God is still calling people. We can go back to the prophet Isaiah:

### Isaiah 6:8
 ⁸Then I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will go for Us?” Then I said, “Here am I. Send me!”

This words are still relevant. God is still looking for workers. Who will be willing to say "Here am I. Send Me!".

### Called to Go
There are people who are called to go. This is the will of God. And I know that we have such people in this room—people who read these verses, and it resonates with your heart. And this is great! This is how it should be!

When we read the Bible, we see that all of us, every single one, should be messengers of the Gospel. But we also see that not everyone chooses mission as their **profession**, as a lifestyle.

That's what defines **a missionary** and sets him apart in the body of Christ.

A missionary is one who chooses mission work as their **profession**. He is the one who has been sent, released by the church.

But for the majority of regular church people, it is probably not the case. The majority will stay home in their local church. So, what about us—you and I—those who stay, who continue to go to church and serve God at home? What is my role in all this mission business?

### TOPIC
This is exactly what we will focus on tonight. Apostle Paul writes his letter to the church in Rome, to the regular people who love the Lord, who go to work and go to church. You know… mere mortals, just like you and me. So, whatever we find in this letter applies to us. Let's read from verse 23:

### Romans 15:23-33
 ²³but now, with no further place for me in these regions, and since I have had for many years a longing to come to you²⁴whenever I go to Spain — for I hope to see you in passing, and to be helped on my way there by you, when I have first enjoyed your company for a while

### Help to those who go
The key phrase for this section in our context today is **"to be helped by you on my way there (Spain)"**. Paul expresses hope that the church in Rome will support him in his upcoming mission trip, that they will help him take the Gospel to Spain.

Let's note that Apostle Paul finds it appropriate to request help and support for his mission from this church. He invites the Romans—and remember, he had no prior connections with this church—to join him in his vision of taking the Gospel to Spain. He invites them to invest their resources into this work.

### Propempo
When he says "*I hope to be helped*" by you, he uses the Greek word "propempo".

> πρό (pro) = before / forward

> πέμπω (pempō) = to send

> propempō = to send forward

In the New Testament, propempō often includes:

* Providing food

* Providing money

* Providing travel help

* Showing respect and blessing

* Making sure the person lacks nothing for the journey

Simply put:

> ropempō means to send someone out with loving care — spiritually, practically, and materially — so God’s work can continue.

Our responsibility as the church is to help, or "propempo," those who are on the mission field. To provide for those who have been called to **go**.

Churches should support missionaries—especially those who go to the unreached. And when I say church and churches, I mean every one of us—you and I. This is your part and your responsibility! Every single one of us—every person in this room. If you are a follower of Christ, you should take part in mission work in one way or another.

If you are not going to the mission field yourself, help, or "propempo," or send someone else forward. This is very biblical. And I think this is how it's supposed to be. We should not concentrate only on our own needs and challenges, focusing only on our problems, getting stuck in our routine. We should not get stuck in the mentality of *"I can't do it. It's only for rich people. It's not the right time. Mission is dead"*—whatever your excuse is. Jesus says:

### John 4:35
³⁵...Behold, I tell you, raise your eyes and observe the fields, that they are white for harvest.

### RESPOSIBILITY #1
We should raise our eyes from our everyday problems and challenges and observe the fields. Our responsibility as people of God, as the church, as those who *stay home*, is to make sure God’s work continues. When the opportunity presents itself, we should participate in God’s mission. In fact, we should look for opportunities to do our part in God’s mission!

### Our fellowship
You know, this very church started because some other churches *propempo* a few missionaries. In fact, they continue to do so after all these years. Maybe I can tell you the whole story some day. But my family—Rodda's family—were able to come and start to work because someone was obedient to the Scriptures. Someone *propempo*—sent us forward. And today we can enjoy the **fruit** of their obedience.

We've heard the great testimony of Rodda's. It's all because they were sent forward by the churches of God.

Before we continue to read, I have to mention also that we, of course, should be wise about who we support, etc. The Bible also talks about that a lot, but we’re not going to have time to talk about it today. So, let's continue reading from verse 30.

### Romans 15:30-33
>³⁰Now I urge you, brothers *and sisters,* by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,³¹that I may be rescued from those who are disobedient in Judea, and *that* my service for Jerusalem may prove acceptable to the saints;³²so that I may come to you in joy by the will of God and relax in your company.³³Now the God of peace *be* with you all. Amen.

In these scriptures, Paul shares about his plans and needs, asking for prayer. Paul anticipates trouble during his stay in Jerusalem and asks the church to pray for him. He also asks them to pray for the successful accomplishment of his mission.

### RESONSIBILITY #2
This is the second way to support mission: to pray for the missionaries. Financial support is important, but prayer support is equally important. We believe in the power of prayer. Prayer is the moving force of every ministry. I think we often underestimate the importance of prayer. Otherwise, we would spend way more time and effort interceding.

We should pray for the missionaries we support. Because at the end of the day, we are not trying to “pay off” God, as some sort of fee or something. We should be involved not only financially but also emotionally—our heart should be involved in the process. We should know what’s going on in their lives and ministry, what the needs are at the moment. We stay tuned, stay connected. And it’s not even that hard.

### Reward 
As we partake in the mission—by sending people, by supporting mission work, by praying for the missionaries—it’s not a one-way road. Not only do we share in their needs, we also share in their reward, in this life, and more importantly, in the life to come.

>### Matthew 10:41,42(if enough time)
>⁴¹The one who receives a prophet in *the* name of a prophet shall receive a prophet’s reward; and the one who receives a righteous person in the name of a righteous person shall receive a righteous person’s reward.⁴²And whoever gives one of these little ones just a cup of cold *water* to drink in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward.”

So, on one hand, by supporting missionaries, we give. We give our finances. We sacrifice time in prayer. But on the other hand, as often happens in the Kingdom of God, we also receive. And we receive so much more.

### Conclusion
So today we reminded ourselves that mission is not dead. God is still looking for workers. Fields are still ready for harvest.

We discovered that even if we don't choose to go, it doesn't mean it means you have no part in mission work. We are still responsible, and we still:

* We should **propempo**—to send/support people with loving care—spiritually, practically, and materially—so God’s work can continue.

* We become true partners, sharing their challenges and praying for them.

And by partaking in the work God is doing through them, we will not lose our reward.

**Practically:** Have an offering for the team before they leave?
