+++
date = '2025-12-26T10:15:51+04:00'
draft = false
title = 'Romans 15:14-19'
+++

### INTRO
Greetings, brothers and sisters.  We are back to our regular study.

We are back in the book of Romans, in case you were wondering. At this point, we are *at the finish line*. There are about one and a half chapters left. Today, we are going to continue with chapter 15.

We stopped at verse 20. My original plan for today was to pick up from there. And to talk about missions. Reaching the unreached. Supporting missionaries. And our responsibility in all of this.

These are important things. And we *are* going to talk about them for sure. But probably not today.


### Topic

Because as I started to prepare, praying and reading Scripture, something else was brought to my attention in this chapter. Something that, honestly, I did not really plan to talk about. But for some reason, I kept feeling convicted that we **should** talk about it. So, let’s do it.

Let’s rewind a few verses to where the Apostle Paul talks about his mission. He gives more reasons for why he wrote this letter, and also explains his authority to address the situation in that church.


### Context
Remember, Paul did not establish the church in Rome. In fact, he had never visited them. So, even though Paul was a well-known figure in Christian circles in the first century, he was not part of that church. In a way, he was a stranger. An outsider.

By the time Paul wrote his letter, the church in Rome had been functioning for at least a decade, or even two. If you really think about it, people in that church had been following Christ for as long as Paul had. So, one could very reasonably say:

"Hey, Paul. We've been doing church for two decades now. And you have never been part of it. We have our leaders. We have the Holy Spirit in us as well. So, by what authority do you write this to us? What prompted you to write this letter?"

And we must admit that these are legitimate questions and concerns.

Understanding this, Paul writes the following:

### Romans 15:14
>¹⁴And concerning you, my brothers *and sisters,* I myself also am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge and able also to admonish one another.

>¹⁵But I have written very boldly to you on some points so as to remind you again, because of the grace that was given to me from God,

>¹⁶**to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles**, ministering as a priest the gospel of God...

In other words, he says: "It's not because you can't figure it out without me. I’m sure you can. But because it is my responsibility before God to make sure you actually get it right. I know I’m a stranger to you, but this is why you can trust me."

The Apostle Paul deserves trust. Because he is a minister of **Christ Jesus**. Which means that **what he says and does, he does on behalf of Jesus**. Whatever goal he pursues is not his own. But belongs to his Master.

It means that he is not after his own agenda. But he is seeking to do the work God trusted him with.

Paul had a unique role. He was appointed by God, in a very unique and dramatic way. He had a special mission and responsibility: to bring the Gospel of Christ to the Gentiles (non-Jewish people). And the authority he had was unique as well.

Unlike a regular pastor, leader, or any kind of minister in the church, whose authority and responsibility are bound to a specific group of people or a specific location that God trusted them with, Paul’s authority and responsibility spanned across multiple churches and regions.

### Romans 15:18-19
>¹⁸For I will not presume to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me, resulting in the obedience of the Gentiles by word and deed,

>¹⁹in the power of **signs** and **wonders**, in the **power of the Spirit**; so that from Jerusalem and all around as far as Illyricum I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.

Paul presents the fruit of his ministry. Proof of his legitimacy. Proof that he is the real deal. That God is with him. And that it is not just talk.

### Actual Topic
Now we are coming to the heart of what we are going to talk about today.

**Why is this verification needed? Why is he saying all this?**

### Example
In our days, **verification** is a regular part of our lives. You verify your credentials multiple times a day without even thinking about it:

You want to unlock your phone -> you have to go through verification  
You want to open your email -> you have to go through verification  
You open your banking app -> you have to go through verification  

Even to enter my building, I have to go through verification too!

Basically, verification is when you need to prove that you can be trusted.

### Connection
And when you let someone speak into your life, to influence you, I think it is a very sensitive area. That requires verification. Especially when a person claims to operate on behalf of God.

You want to be sure that this person is trustworthy. That he knows what he is doing. And that he is not pursuing his own goals.

That’s why verification is necessary. Even when it came to the Apostle Paul back in the day. Because in New Testament times, and it is still true today, there were many false teachers, false prophets, self-proclaimed leaders, “influencers,” as we call them today.

People who cover up their hidden motives with a “Christian-like” narrative. People who have their own ambitions, their own agenda. Who pursue their own goals. Who try to **use the church of God for their own purposes**.

And Paul was no stranger to this problem. He had to deal with this kind of people damaging the church more than once.

But even before Paul, Jesus Himself warned us about this kind of people:

### Matthew 7:15-16
>¹⁵“Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves.¹⁶You will know them by their fruits...

People can be very deceiving. They can fool you and me. They can put on a fake Christian character and be very believable. So much so that you cannot tell who is who until you see the fruit. The results of their actions. The results of their influence. We can see examples of this in the New Testament:

### 3 John 1:9,10
>⁹I wrote something to the church; but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not accept what we say.¹⁰For this reason, if I come, I will call attention to his deeds which he does, unjustly accusing us with malicious words; and not satisfied with this, he himself does not receive the brothers either, and he forbids those who want *to do so* and puts *them* out of the church.

Sounds very bad to me. And also there is another one:

### 2 Corinthians 11:13-15
>¹³These people are false apostles. They are deceitful workers who disguise themselves as apostles of Christ.¹⁴But I am not surprised! Even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.¹⁵So it is no wonder that his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. In the end they will get the punishment their wicked deeds deserve.

### Reality
This is real. It happened then. It is still happening today, in big churches, in small churches, and even in our own church, we have already experienced it. When a person comes, they smile at your face. They say nice things and present the best version of themselves, on Sundays, during small groups, and all throughout the week.

They know all the right answers. They know the right words to say. They can probably quote Scripture after Scripture. They are supportive and charismatic. And when you look at them, you think to yourself:

>"Gosh, this person is way better than me. I don’t know the Bible nearly as well. I have issues with my character, but this guy or girl is perfect. A perfect follower of Christ. How come he is not the pastor or something..."

But then, as we figured out later, this same person was engaged in behind-the-scenes maneuvering to achieve their own goals, to promote their agenda. And it all came out almost by accident.

### Disclaimer
Just to be clear, it’s been a few years since then. And this person is not here anymore, or maybe he is. I won’t tell.)))

This kind of people go around approaching church members in private, saying things like, "Let's start our own church, our own group. They say, 'Leaders are not bad people; they’re just wrong. We can do so much better.' 

This church has problems... It’s missing this and that... The pastor doesn’t let anyone else serve in this church, and so on."

And you know, by serving they don’t mean vacuuming, cleaning toilets, or doing dishes. They usually mean, "They didn’t make me a church leader on the day we met."

It’s a real problem that still exists. Maybe it’s happening right now. I’m not going to know, because such people are not going to come to me. They’re going to go to you.

It is especially challenging in a setting like ours, when we have new people joining our fellowship every week, and then, on one hand, you want to encourage people to serve, to edify one another, and on the other hand, you want to prevent "ravenous wolves," as Jesus called them, from having a go.

### Back to Paul
So, even though the Apostle Paul was an important man of God in general, for this particular church, he was an outsider.

And therefore, he did not hesitate to provide proof that his motivation is pure. That he doesn’t pursue his own goals, and that he is only concerned about what his Master appointed him to do.

He proves that he *can be trusted*.

### Application
What is the lesson for us today? I think the biggest takeaway is that we should stay alert and not let the enemy destroy the work of God in this city, in our church.

And this word is not only for the leaders, it is for every one of us. Whether it is your first time here, or you’ve been here from day one. Regardless of whether you’ll stay here for a month or for years to come, we should take ownership and help this church be what God wants us to be.

This includes protecting our own hearts, and our brothers and sisters, especially those who are new to faith, those who are on their way to believing, and those who are weak from false prophets and false apostles, from ravenous wolves.

### Red flag
And if you’re wondering, how would I know? I mean, I’m new here and all that.

Good point. I’ll give you one universal sign. There are more, but this one works pretty much every time. A huge red flag that signals something is not right. It is when people suggest or start doing something **in secret**, bypassing church leadership.

### John 10:1,2
>¹“I tell you the truth, anyone who sneaks over the wall of a sheepfold, rather than going through the gate, must surely be a thief and a robber!²But the one who enters through the gate is the shepherd of the sheep.

This church belongs to God. It is HIS sheepfold, and no one who comes from God should *sneak over the wall*.

If you are not ready to enter *through the gates*, well, maybe then just stay outside. There is no place for plotting, "pulling the strings," or intrigue in this Church.

If you have a genuine concern about something that you think we are doing wrong, go to the leaders. Go to a pastor and present your concerns there—openly.

But if instead you are going around the church sabotaging the work of God, please, stop. You are not serving the Lord; you are serving your ego. And as Paul says, *"In the end they will get the punishment their wicked deeds deserve."*

I mean, go do something else. You’re not gonna win this game. In the end, God will be the winner anyway.

### Your part
On the other hand, in case someone comes to you and starts to make you doubt your church, leaders, pastor, whatever, you don’t have to listen to that. In fact, you should not listen to them, because it will affect you, your faith, and your attitude.

I really liked the response of one of the people who had experienced that situation a few years ago. When he was approached like that, in secret he replied with:

"If you have real concerns, let's go to the pastor together and talk them through..."

Don’t let seeds of doubt grow in your heart. This is how the enemy works, right from the beginning, when someone comes to you and tries to make you doubt your faith, your church, or your church leaders. They are not concerned about you, your success, or your spiritual growth. They are only concerned about themselves, their own agenda, and their own success.

Working like that, in secret, is never God’s way. This is how the enemy works.

### Conclusion

So, wrapping up, we should stay alert in our minds and in our spirit, and not let the enemy destroy or damage the work of God.

Even the Apostle Paul understood that, and set the example for us. He openly addressed the church, laid out everything he had on his mind, and allowed them to decide whether they would accept him or not, and whether they would support his mission. He entered through the gates.

### John 10:1,2
>¹“I tell you the truth, anyone who sneaks over the wall of a sheepfold, rather than going through the gate, must surely be a thief and a robber!²But the one who enters through the gate is the shepherd of the sheep.
